# AntShares Introduction

AntShares is a smart asset platform and the first open source public chain project in China. Smart assets are the combination of smart blockchain contracts and digital assets. Making registering, distributing and trading digital assets more intelligent.

👉 Digital assets are assets stored in the form of electronic data with blockchain technology to achieve features such as decentralization, trustless, traceability, transparency and so on. The AntShare blockchain supports a variety of digital assets, allowing users to register, distribute, freely trade and circulate assets. Digital certificates can solve the issue of trust on the blockchain. Through digital certificates,user-issued assets can also enjoy the protection of the law. For business scenarios with complex logic, users can use smart contracts to enhance the functionality of assets, or create asset-independent business logic.

👉 The Smart Contract was first proposed by the cryptologist Nick Szabo in 1993, almost the same age as the Internet. According to Nick Szabo's definition: When a pre-programmed condition is met, the smart contract executes the corresponding contract terms. Blockchain technology gives us a decentralized, immutable, highly reliable system in which smart contracts are very useful. AntShares has Turing-complete smart contract capabilities, which are executed in the AntShares Virtual Machine (AVM) and has many advantages such as being deterministic having termination, resource control, concurrency, fragmentation and scalability.

AntShares combines a range of technologies such as point-to-point network, Byzantine Fault Tolerance, digital certificates, smart contracts, superconducting transactions, cross-chain interoperability protocols, allowing you to manage your smart assets quickly, efficiently, safely and legally.
