# Contract

Click on the contract on the Neo-GUI homepage to enter the contract page. Here you can quickly deploy or invoke your contracts.

## Search contract

In the search box, you can search for the contract by its contract hash or ID.

By clicking the contract entry you can enter the contract details page to view the following information:

-  `Contract Hash`: The hash generated by the contract script using the RIPEMD-160 algorithm
- `ID`：The serial number of the contract, where negative numbers represent native contracts and positive numbers represent ordinary smart contracts
- `Issuance Time `: The contract issuance time
- Contract features：
  - `storage` : The contract uses a storage area。
  - `payable` : The contract can receive assets. In the NEP-5 standard, the payable field of the payee is checked when transferring money.
- Contract methods: methods and parameters included in the contract.

## Deploying a contract

To deploy a contract on the blockchain, you need to open a wallet first, and then do the following:

1. Go to the`Deploy Contract` page.

2. Select the nef and manifest files of the contract you want to deploy.

   If there is a manifest file with the same name in the nef directory, it will be automatically associated.

3. Click `Trial Run` to test running and check the result.

   If something goes wrong, there may be these reasons:

   - The contract already exists
   - nef file and manifest file do not match
   - Nef file or manifest error
   - Insufficient handling fee

4. If the trial run goes successfully, click `Deploy` to confirm the deployment.

For more information refer to [Deploying Smart Contracts](../../sc/deploy/deploy.md).

## Invoking a contract

To invoke a contract already deployed on the blockchain, do the following:

1. Enter the contract script hash in the search box and click `Search` .

   The methods and parameters included in the current contract are displayed.

2. Select the desired method and fill in the parameters.

3. (Optional) If co-signature is required, select a standard account in Cosigner. 

4. Click `Trial Run` to test running and check the result.

   A trial run just creates a NeoVM locally and simulates execution. It does not affect the blockchain.

5. If the trial run goes successfully, click `Invoke`.

For more information refer to [Invoking Smart Contracts](../../sc/deploy/invoke.md).

